{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 Here is the list of 20 Agile interview questions.\par
Agile Testing Interview Questions 1 \endash  10:\par
1. What is Agile Testing?\par
Agile testing is a software testing practice that follows the principles of an agile software development. It is an iterative software development methodology where requirements keep changing as per the customer needs. Testing is done in parallel to the development of an iterative model. Test team receives frequent code changes from the development team for testing an application.\par
2. What is Agile Manifesto?\par
Agile manifesto defines 4 key points:\par
i. Individuals and interactions over process and tools\par
ii. Working software over comprehensive documentation\par
iii. Customer collaboration over contract negotiation\par
iv. Responding to change over following a plan\par
3. What are the principles of Agile Software Development?\par
1. Highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of business valuable software\par
2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development\par
3. Deliver working software frequently\par
4. Business people and developers must work together daily without transparency throughout the project\par
5. Build projects around motivated individuals\par
6. The best form of communication is to do face-to-face conversation\par
7. Working software is the primary measure of progress\par
8. Able to maintain a constant pace\par
9. Continuous attention to technical excellence\par
10. Simplicity \endash  the art of maximizing the amount of work not done \endash  is essential\par
11. Self-organizing teams\par
12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly\par
4. What are the main roles in Scrum?\par
Scrum consists of three main roles:\par
Product Owner: Product Owner usually represents the Client and acts as a point of contact from Client side. The one who prioritizes the list of Product Backlogs which Scrum Team should finish and release.\par
Scrum Master: Scrum Master acts as a facilitator to the Scrum Development Team. Clarifies the queries and organizes the team from distractions and teach the team how to use scrum and also concentrates on Return on Investment (ROI). Responsible for managing the sprint.\par
Scrum Development Team: Developer\rquote s, QA\rquote s. Who develops the product. Scrum development team decides the effort estimation to complete a Product Backlog Item.\par
Scrum Team: A cross-functional, self-organizing group of dedicated people (Group of Product Owner, Business Analyst, Developer\rquote s and QA\rquote s). Recommended size of a scrum team is 7 plus or minus 2 (i.e, between 5 to 9 members in a team).\par
5. What approach do you follow when requirements change continuously?\par
In Agile methodology, change in requirement is possible. It\rquote s not like other traditional methodologies where the requirements are locked down at the requirement phase. Every team member should be ready to handle the changes in the project.\par
The team should work closely with the Product Owner to understand the scope of requirement change and to negotiate to keep the requirement changes to a minimum or to adopt those changes in next sprint. Based on the requirement changes Test Team could update the Test Plan and Test Cases to achieve the deadlines. The team should understand the risk in requirement change and prepare a contingency plan. It is a best practice not to go for the automation process until requirements are finalized.\par
6. How is Agile Testing different to other traditional Software Development Models?\par
It is one of the common Agile Testing Interview Questions.\par
In Agile Methodology, testing is not a phase like other traditional models. It is an activity parallel to development in the Agile. The time slot for the testing is less in the Agile compared to the traditional models. The testing team works on small features in Agile whereas the test team works on a complete application after development in the traditional models.\par
7. When do we use Agile Scrum Methodology?\par
i. When the client is not so clear on requirements\par
ii. When the client expects quick releases\par
iii. When the client doesn\rquote t give all the requirements at a time\par
8. What is a Sprint?\par
In Scrum, the project is divided into Sprints. Each Sprint has a specified time line (2 weeks to 1 month). This timeline will be agreed by a Scrum Team during the Sprint Planning Meeting. Here, User Stories are split into different modules. The end result of every Sprint should be a potentially shippable product.\par
9. What are Product Backlog and Sprint Backlog?\par
Product Backlog: Product Backlog is a repository where the list of Product Backlog Items stored and maintained by the Product Owner. The list of Product Backlog Items are prioritized by the Product Owner as high and low and also could re-prioritize the product backlog constantly.\par
Sprint Backlog: Group of user stories which scrum development team agreed to do during the current sprint (Committed Product Backlog items). It is a subset of the product backlog.\par
10. What is the difference between Burn-up and Burn-down chart?\par
Burn Down Charts provide proof that the project is on track or not. Both burn-up and burn-down charts are graphs used to track the progress of a project.\par
Burn-up charts represent how much work has been completed in a project whereas Burn-down chart represents the remaining work left in a project.\par
Agile Testing Interview Questions 11 \endash  20:\par
11. What are the types of burn-down charts?\par
There are four popularly used burn down charts in Agile.\par
i. Product burn down chart\par
ii. Sprint burn down chart\par
iii. Release burn down chart\par
iv. Defect burn down chart\par
12. What is Product Burn down Chart?\par
A graph which shows how many Product Backlog Items (User Stories) implemented/not implemented.\par
13. What is Sprint Burn down Chart?\par
A graph which shows how many Sprints implemented/not implemented by Scrum Team.\par
14. What is Release Burn down Chart?\par
A graph which shows List of releases still pending, which Scrum Team have planned.\par
15. What is Defect Burn down Chart?\par
A graph which shows how many defects identified and fixed.\par
16. What is a Daily Stand-up Meeting?\par
Daily Stand-up Meeting is a daily routine meeting. It brings everyone up to date on the information and helps the team to stay organized.\par
Each team member reports to the peers the following:\par
1. What did he/she do yesterday\par
2. What are the impediments faced\par
3. What he/she will do today\par
In general, it\rquote s not a recorded meeting. Reporting will be between peers not to Scrum Master or Product Owner. It is normally timeboxed to a maximum of 15 minutes. It is aka 15 Minute Stand-up Meeting\par
17. What is a Sprint Planning Meeting?\par
The first step of Scrum is Sprint Planning Meeting where the entire Scrum Team attends. Here the Product Owner selects the Product Backlog Items (User Stories) from the Product Backlog.\par
Most important User Stories at the top of the list and least important User Stories at the bottom. Scrum Development Team decides and provides the effort estimation.\par
18. What is a Sprint Review Meeting?\par
In the Sprint Review Meeting, Scrum Development Team presents a demonstration of a potentially shippable product. Product Owner declares which items are completed and not completed. Product Owner adds the additional items to the product backlog based on the stakeholder\rquote s feedback.\par
19. What is a Sprint Retrospective Meeting?\par
Scrum Team meets again after the Sprint Review Meeting and documents the lessons learned in the earlier sprint such as \ldblquote What went well\rdblquote , \ldblquote What could be improved\rdblquote . It helps the Scrum Team to avoid the mistakes in the next Sprints.\par
20. What is a Task Board?\par
A task board is a dashboard which illustrates the progress that an agile team is making in achieving their sprint goals.\par
In general, the columns used in a task board are as follows\par
i. User Story: Actual Business Requirement (Description)\par
ii. To Do: All the tasks of current sprint\par
iii. In Progress: Any task being worked on\par
iv. To Verify: Tasks pending for verification\par
v. Done: Tasks which are completed\par
}
 