{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Q: What is Gradle?\par
Gradle is the built system that was introduced with android studio back in 2013 and essentially its main job is to take your source code and resources and everything else that is associated with your project into APK file Gradle has a concept called Tasks which are different to Ant Task. Gradle has a proper programming language instead of HTML configuration file and the language is called \lquote Groovy\rquote . The built scripts in Gradle is code in a first-class programming language, so anything related to program code can be easily done in the Gradle built. So, the Gradle scripts are the regular programs but they didn\rquote t use Java as writing the scripts instead they opted for another language called Groovy. Therefore, Gradle\rquote s written scripts have used a programming language which is termed as Groovy and besides it has a directed acyclic graph to determine the order of the task. \par
\par
Q: What is Groovy in Gradle?\par
The core programming language of Gradle is written in the form a script and this script is known by the terminology as \lquote Groovy\rquote . Groovy has some interesting features to be noted down firstly, it runs on the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) so that means it can interoperate with Java really well. Secondly, you don\rquote t need to learn Groovy in order to write a build scripting Gradle book. Thirdly, its backward can be compatible with Java. The Groovy code is lots smaller and easier to write and read than the Java code. Groovy is the language that underlies the Gradle. Groovy is a JVM language so it compiles down the JVM byte code and besides it is not exactly a Java but it acts like a Java with a whole bunch of its stuff and it is particularly a dynamic language like Ruby and Python.\par
\par
Q: Know the benefits of using Gradle:\par
The concept of Gradle is all about blend of Maven and Ant which takes the best from the frameworks. It offers better flexibility from the tool of Ant and also the conversion over the configuration management dependency and Maven plug-ins. It also offers the best support for the different built up project. It is considered to be the best management of library and is completely configuration with flexible timing for better outcome. It allows you to publish and even attach the project for the self content library with best possible assets and resources.\par
\par
Q: Know file name which is built by the Gradle?\par
The file name which is built by the Gradle is build.gradle.\par
\par
Q: Can you explain the reason of Gradle preference over the other built in frameworks?\par
Gradle is the scripting source which is written with the help of\par
\par
Q: Why Gradle is more preferred compared to other build framework?\par
Gradle script is written using groovy that has syntax similar to java, so easy to understand. Besides, it also offers support for multi project builds.\par
\par
Q: Explain in detail about The Overall Roadmap?\par
There is a milestone which gets released for the Gradle Script Kotlin. It will then be shipped with the version of 3.0 which furthermore post the information about the roadmap to the Gradle Script Kotlin 1.0 GA\par
Q: Is it possible that exiting plugins work once the My build logic in the Kotlin is written?\par
Well, certainly it is possible without any kind of issue. Rather it can be developed in any type of JVM language. Besides, it interoperates with one other along with the build scripts that are well written in Groovy or Kotlin.\par
\par
Q: Can you explain the right way of using the Kotlin For Gradle?\par
There is not specifically a way to actually use the Kotlin For Gradle however, Jetbrains comes behind the IDEA and is also said to be the best possible solution which also works as the inventor and drives the force behind Kotlin. It strives hard to offer the best Kotlin support for the Eclipse. Besides, the Gradle also helps to build the Eclipse logic that will improvise the Kotlin after interacting the Eclipse Kotlin support\par
\par
Q: Which language needs to be used for creating the Plugin?\par
To create the plug-in in JVM language is advised. However, you are also advised to try it out making in the language of your choice depending on the requirement for creating the plug-ins of the Gradle.\par
\par
Q: Is it possible to see the list of projects that are available?\par
Certainly it is possible to see the list of projects that are available with the help of Gradle projects section.\par
\par
Q: Is it worth to use the Groovy for the Build Scripts Deprecated?\par
It is certainly not that worth since the Gradles groovy support will not be deprecate rather it will further more continue to get the desired support\par
\par
Q: Could you explain the difference between build.gradle and build.xml?\par
There is quite a lot difference between these two concepts. Talking of which the XML file called build.xml has as the start and end tag whereas under the build.gradle, it works on the groovy programming language.\par
\par
Q: Could you explain the process to install the Eclipse Gradle?\par
There are few steps involved in the process of installing the Gradle on Eclipse that includes:\par
\par
1. First you need to open the Eclipse\par
2. Then you need to click on the Help menu option at toolbar and make sure new software is installed\par
3. Then you need to add the section by clicking on it\par
4. Furthermore, you need to insert the name with something\par
5. Once you click on OK section, you need to check all types of checkbox and then click on the finish section\par
\par
Q: Exampling in brief about the Gradle Build Script File Name\par
This type of name is written in the format that is build.gradle. It generally configures the Gradle scripting language\par
\par
Q: Explain in detail about the Gradle Wrapper?\par
Gradle wrapper is considered to be the best way to start a Gradle Build. This type of wrapper is a batch script on Windows besides, there is also a shell script for the operating system. Once the Gradle build is started through the wrapper, there will be an auto download that is used for running the build\par
Q: Explain the Process to add the dependencies on Gradle?\par
To make sure the dependency for your project is added, you need to mention the configuration dependency like compiling the block dependencies of the build.gradle file.\par
\par
Q: Explain in brief about the Dependency Configuration?\par
There is a set of dependency which is also termed as the configuration dependency. It comprises of the external dependency which you need to install well and make sure the downloading is done from the web. There are some key features of this configuration which are:\par
\par
1. Compilation: The project which you would be starting and working on the first needs to be well compiled and ensure that it is maintained in the good condition.\par
2. Runtime: It is the desired time which is required to get the work dependency in the form of collection.\par
3. Test Compile: The dependencies check source requires the collection to be made for running the project.\par
4. Test runtime: This is the final process which needs the checking to be done for running the test that is in a default manner considered to be the mode of runtime\par
\par
Q: Could you explain the new version of Gradle that is available in the market?\par
The latest possible version of the automation in Gradle which is available in the market is 3.5. It is released in 2017 and is said to be the quick functioning.\par
Q: Know more about the Gradle Daemon?\par
It is the background which is also considered to be the built server. The best part of the Gradle Daemon is that it runs out at a faster pace. It comes with the long living background Java Process. It also works as a client communication solution with the local TCP.\par
\par
Q: Explain in detail about the Dependency Management present in Gradle\par
This type of solution includes the dependences of the program. It operates in such a way that projects are built up besides; Gradle also works in a specific path because of which there is a new type of syntax. It is also called as the dependencies. Besides, the main function of Gradle is to make sure the path way is known so that it can construct and run the project to find it in a right manner. The Gradle focuses on determining the project dependency and ensure that the emphasize in the creating the tool is well maintained.\par
\par
Q: Know the way by which Gradle can get the performance at faster pace:\par
Well, Gradle would improve building the speed with the help of reusing the computation from the previous bud. Besides, the use of cache information is also done for better output.\par
\par
Q: Explain the concept of the Gradle Wrapper?\par
With the help of Gradle wrapper, you can run the Gradle without installing it and even download the desired Gradle version. This type of version is however, specific only to a particular product and have features such as:\par
Best for regular Integration Servers\par
Go to be used in the control system of the version\par
The configuration wrapper can be down with the wrapper task means\par
Q: Know the Daemon present in Gradle 3.0?\par
\par
The best part of Daemon is it has good UX\par
It is quite sturdy and said to be pretty much powerful\par
It is aware of the resource\par
It is well integrated with the Gradle Build scans\par
It has been default enabled\par
Q: Explain the difference between the gradle.properties and settings.gradle\par
This type of option is a groovy script which helps in defining the build associated settings. It is not related to any kind of project rather is an evaluation made against the object setting. You can also add further more projects in it. Through this it becomes possible for you to make the changes, modify the parameter and access the object of the Gradle in the convenient manner.\par
Q: Define in depth about Gradle Multi-Project Build?\par
It is considered to be one of the best performing tool by which you will be able to take any type of task no matter irrespective of the size. With this tool, you can efficiently work with different task related projects. If the document is of small size, the task will be a lot more easy and flexible. Besides, the whole way is said to be the Gradle Multi-Project building option.\par
\par
Q: Explain the concept of Gradle Motto?\par
There is a Gradle tool which helps you in choosing the right type of slogan. With this, you can convince the user to utilize the opposite framework. Besides, there is also a quote that says that making the impossible is always possible and making the possible is a lot more easy and elegant.\par
\par
Q: Know the concept of Gradle Build Environment:\par
This type of option works as variety of way and option by which you will actually be able to create the Java for configuring the throughout process of the whole project that eventually would carry out in building.\par
\par
Q: Could you list down the configuration files of the Gradle build concept?\par
1. Generally the script that defines the build configuration is the build.gradle,\par
2. Other than this script, the one in demand is the settings.gradle\par
3. You can also choose the option of gradle.properties\par
Q: Know the basic components of the Gradle scripting of build?\par
There two primary components those are organized as per the project and the list of tasks done.\par
\par
To see the inventory of available project, you can use the command Gradle project while for the list of the task, the command that can be used is the Gradle task\par
\par
Q: Explain the Difference between Gradle Task and Project?\par
\par
Every Gradle is bold of more than one project. The project showcases the dependency on what you are actually making with Gradle. Suppose there is a project that may represent a library or even the web based application. It may also represent the distribution which is ZIP assembled. The project not really represents a thing for building. It rather would represent a thing that needs to be done such as to deeply the application to production environment.\par
Moving further, every project is made of more than one task. A task is all about the way it represent to some atomic work piece that helps in creating the performance. This possibly could be compiling some of the classes which usually creates the JAR and also generates the JavaDoc or publish some of the repository archives.\par
There are some of the questions patterns that you need to understand. Switch to the next question only when you are pretty much clear with the previous one to avoid any kind of confusion or problem.\par
Q: Advantages of using Gradle?\par
1. Gradle combines both Ant and Maven taking the best from both of these frameworks flexibility from Ant tool and convention over configuration dependency management and plugins from Maven.\par
2. Gradle Provides support from all the project builts.\par
3. Better library management.\par
4. It let you publish or attached to your project a self-content library with all its resources, assets, and even more manifest entry.\par
5. It is highly configurable and flexible at the same time.\par
Q: How to Install Gradle on Eclipse?\par
Step 1:\par
Open Eclipse\par
Step 2:\par
Click on Help menu on the toolbar & install new software\par
Step 3:\par
Click add\par
Step 4:\par
Insert name with anything \par
Step 5:\par
Click OK and check all the checkbox\par
Step 6:\par
Click on finish button\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Daemon?\par
Daemon is a background built server that we can use to make built faster. The best feature of Gradle Daemon is that it gets faster the more you use it. It is a long-lived background Java process besides it acts as a client/server communicating with TCP locally. It also listens for and executes Build Actions. \par
Q: How is Daemon in Gradle 3.0?\par
1. Better UX\par
2. More powerful and sturdy\par
3. Resource-aware\par
4. Integrated with Gradle Build Scans\par
5. Enabled By default\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Build Task?\par
Every Gradle Build Tasks is made up of one or more projects and a project represents what is been done with Gradle. For instance, it might represent the library jar or a web application. It can also represents some activity been done using Gradle, for instance, deploying of code to continuous integration server, running automated tests before merging into VCS and so on. Some key of features of Gradle Build Tasks are:\par
1. Task has life cycled methods- do first, do last\par
2. Build Scripts are code\par
3. DAG can be configured\par
4. Default tasks like run, clean etc\par
5. Task dependencies defined using properties like mustRunafter, dependsOn, etc\par
Q: What is Gradle Wrapper?\par
Gradle Wrappers helps you to run Gradle without having been installs and it downloads the required Gradle versions. This downloaded Gradle version is specific only to this particular project. The key features of Gradle Wrapper are:\par
1. Ideal for use in Continuous Integration Servers and Version Control System\par
2. Wrapper scripts download the required Gradle version\par
3. Configure wrapper by means of Wrapper Task\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Build Life Cycle?\par
The Gradle Build phases consist of three major steps without which the Build Life Cycle will be failed to use this includes initialization phase, configuration phase, and execution phase. The initialization phase is where the project layer or objects are organized and on the other hand, the configuration phase is where all the tasks are available for the current build are found out and you create a dependency graph. The execution phase is one where the end tasks are executed.\par
Some Key Features:\par
1. It can receive notifications during lifecycle\par
2. Settings.gradle file determines type of build \par
Q: What is Gradle Java Plugin?\par
It is determined that all the useful features that you need for any particular build like compiling Java code or creating documentations etc are added by means of Plugin. The Plugin extends the features of Gradle and you can customize it for each of your builds. The Java plugin basically adds Java compilation along with testing and bundling capabilities to the project. It is introduced in the way of a SourceSet which act as a group of source files complied and executed together. Plugins, can therefore, add new tasks; can create new domino and etc. \par
\par
Q: What Is The Gradle Build Script File Name?\par
The Gradle Build Script file name is written in a format named build.gradle which configures your Gradle scripting language.\par
\par
Q: What Is The Latest Version Of Gradle Available In The Market?\par
The available latest version for the Gradle automation system is 3.5 which has been released in the year 2017 with faster functions. \par
\par
Q: Why Gradle Is Preferred Over Other Build Tools?\par
Historically, it is used be the building which is compiling and packaging a source code. Today, builders are responsible for so much more they run a test, combine the code resources to multiple sources, generate documentation, publish applications and manage dependencies. Therefore, the builders become the software factory where we can continually change tests and release our apps. Thus, Gradle is a one shop stop for defining an integrated all parts of your self-delivered processes. For example, for the Gradle users, the process that executes modern ids likes Android Studio which makes the Gradle for a better tool than others Build tools. Google selected Gradle as the build system for Android Studio. In fact, Android Studio has delicates the entire process of building android apps to Gradle tool. Gradle is the dominant multi-platform build system. Another advantage it has a compact and powerful build language used to write its build scripts. \par
\par
Q: Maven vs Gradle\par
Maven and Gradle are the two most popular build tools in the Java system. They have a lot of similarities that\rquote s why it is so fun and interesting to make a comparison between them. Both of them have advantages and disadvantages and here we will make some strong point for each of them. \par
\par
Maven:\par
One of the revolutionary aspects of Maven is that its reusability aspects which made it worldwide popular. In Maven, you can build models into a hierarchy and the reactor is how the Maven will look at those models individually and creates the way building them independently for each other considering all the dependencies it can work efficiently building models and models. \par
\par
Gradle:\par
1. Dependency Validation\par
2. Composite Build\par
3. Conflict Revolution\par
4. Dependency Rules\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Dependency Management?\par
Gradle Dependency Management involves the programming of dependencies that operate in the form to build projects and Gradle work in a particular path which leads to a unique syntax that termed as dependencies. Perhaps, Gradle main function is to look for the path where it can run or construct the project in order to find them. The Gradle determines the dependencies of any project and lets them highlight in the build tool. \par
\par
Q: What is Dependency Configuration?\par
A set of dependencies is termed as dependency configuration which also comprises of some external dependencies which you probably need to install and download from the web. There are some key features of dependency configuration they are:\par
\par
Compile:\par
The project you are going to start and work on it first need to be compiled together to make it in a working condition. \par
\par
Runtime:\par
It is the required time needed to get the dependency work in the collection.\par
\par
Test Compile:\par
The check source of the dependencies is to be collected in order to run the project.\par
\par
Test Runtime:\par
The final procedure is to check and run the test which is by default act as a runtime mode. \par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Build a JAVA Project?\par
One can easily build or construct Java Project by using this modern tool named Gradle build file. The first essential part needed to be considered is that the needs to add Java Plugin to the Gradle build script as its main objective is to compile generate Javadoc, run tests, Java-based code, and to create a JAR record. It is only possible if the format build.gradle file is rightfully used during the whole process. \par
Q: What are the advanced features of Gradle?\par
1. The Gradle tool work as a task rules and dynamic tasks.\par
2. It highly based n dependency build script.\par
3. It also comprises of Gradle Daemon which works as a background built server.\par
\par
Q: Who uses Gradle?\par
Gradle act as a modern and sophisticated tool like another popular Maven tool which has its own dynamic quality and various usages in many programming languages this includes:\par
1. Spock\par
2. Groovy\par
3. Canoo\par
4. Gant\par
5. Hibernate\par
6. Grails\par
7. Spring Integration\par
8. FCC\par
9. Griffon\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Multi-Project Build?\par
Gradle is said to be one of the best tools which can handle any tasks irrespective of large or small. This unique tool is highly efficient enough to work with any kind of task-related projects. The smaller the file is, the work becomes easier and flexible and this entire process is called to be as Gradle Multi-Project Build. \par
Q: What is Gradle Running a Build?\par
One of the unique features of Gradle is that it works on multiple projects or tasks at the same given time with hassle-free working performance. It generally used a command line to carry out the works of build script. Therefore, it can easily execute multiple task-based works at a time from a single build file. This whole process act as a conjunction where one projects added or linked with one after the other. \par
\par
Q: What are the core components of Gradle Build Script?\par
Gradle is incomplete without the availability of a project along with the task and the programming language Groovy makes the list of all tasks of the projects. In order to get the full list of the available projects use command to get the full view of the task lists. \par
\par
Q: How to find Gradle Project Dependencies?\par
In such cases, always use the command option it will automatically list the selected project dependencies which will consist of both the dependencies on one hand the transitive dependencies and on the other the direct dependencies. \par
\par
Q: What is the main difference between Maven Build.xml and Build.gradle Script?\par
The two basic and important attributes are needed to define the Maven Build.xml this include the start tags and the end tags. On the other hand, Build.gradle runs on the programming language Groovy and this build script works on syntax. \par
Q: How to create an IntelliJ Idea Gradle Project?\par
To start a Gradle Project in IntelliJ you need to first create a new project on this particular software and there you will get a number of options and out of which you will choose the Gradle options and next it will lead to a check-box where it shows all the empty directories like source main Java or source test Java and then we will choose a build Gradle wrapper to carry out the work process and will change the JVM version to 1.8. It eventually shows the all the skeleton of the project.\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Deployment?\par
The build artifacts repositories can be deployed by the Gradle tool in many ways it can easily change from Gradle to Maven by using the Maven-Publish Plugin. \par
\par
Q: Why use Gradle instead of Ant and Maven?\par
Both Ant and Maven work perfectly as a tool and both has more or less similar features and traits. Ant is obliviously a flexible usage tool and Maven is known for its dependency efficiency management. But the unique features of Gradle tool make it gloriously significant than any other popular tool as it work remarkably on various multi-projects with hassle-free functions. Thus, Gradle has both the key features of both Ant and Maven.\par
Q: How Gradle works as a migration agent?\par
Gradle is very flexible in nature and it can adapt any structure and any position according to its behavior and it is a reliable source which is not all destructive in nature rather it works efficiently step by step. \par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Motto?\par
The Gradle tool has chosen an idealistic slogan which makes the user believe in a composite framework and the quote says \ldblquote Make the impossible possible, make the possible easy, and make the easy elegant\rdblquote .\par
\par
Q: What is Gradle Build Environment?\par
The Gradle serves various ways and options that help to build and construct Java to configure it throughout the process of the entire project which will carry out the build.\par
\par
}
 